Add docs for gas fee refunds (#555)
flashbots/flashbots-docs: docs/flashbots-auction/advanced/gas-fee-refunds.md

---
title: Gas Fee Refunds
---

## Introduction

> Searchers and API users are automatically eligible to receive gas fee refunds. If Flashbots can include a bundle on chain for a lower price, you are eligible to receive a refund.

Reviewer: What is an API user? Are Protect users API users? You should be clear

The Flashbots builder uses a refund rule to retroactively calculate refunds for all bundles landed in its blocks.

The refund rule aims to have bundles make the minimum net payment so that bidding optimally is as straight forward as possible. We do this by measuring the contribution of bundles above the other bundles the builder has received, and refunding as much of that as possible. 

Bundles sent by the same signer will be treated as non-competitive.

### The Flat Tax Rule

<div className="med caption-img">

![Flat tax rule](/img/flat-tax-rule.png)

Definition of the flat tax rule

</div>

Notice that if the block generates enough value after paying the proposer, everyone should be refunded their contribution, meaning everyone pays the minimum they need to pay to beat competition. 

### Identity constraint

To avoid the rule being gamed by submitting bundles from multiple identities, we impose an additional constraint that no set of identities can receive in total more refunds than they contribute to the block.

<div className="med caption-img">

![Identity constraint](/img/identity-constraint.png)

Definition of the identity constraint

</div>

## Who receives refunds

> The refund recipient is the signer used on the `eth_sendBundle`, `mev_sendBundle`, or `eth_sendPrivateTransaction` request.

Reviewer: I thought we were defaulting to msg.sender unless there was an override?

Author: That's true for protect (tx.origin not msg.sender to be precise). For anything sent directly to the bundle relay it's the signer because signer is always provided and this allows for separating eg. bot address from refund recipient which affords more privacy.

## How to track refunds

Refunds are tracked from a start date of July 8, 2024.

> Searchers will be able to view the unclaimed refund amount for an address in a public API in early July 2024.

Reviewer 2: Let's deemphasize the date ("early" July doesn't give us much wiggle room) and focus on the features:

```suggestion
Via an upcoming API searchers will be able to:

- View unclaimed refund amounts
- Delegate refunds to an Ethereum account other than their signing key address.
```
